Based on the current scenario, it has come into an observation that global supply chain
activities in the current scenario are facing significant issues that interrupts supply chain
activities. In this case, it has come into an observation that facing material scarcity
challenges has become one of the trending issues, which can interrupt sustainable
supply chain activities in the current scenario. On the other hand, issues regarding port
congestion also hamper global supply chain activities. As reported by Pandey et al.
(2020), difficulties in forecasting significant demand have been started facing by
business organisations and at the same time, it has been reported as hampering global
supply chain activities. In addition to this, high freight prices have become effective for
postponing the global supply chain activities of various companies.
The pandemic has affected global supply chain and overall business operations across
the globe were changed rapidly which cause loss of profitability. The primary obstackle
was Covid restrictions for which the Companies were unable to import or export the
materials. As a result, heir manufacturing were getting hampered. As the retail demands
across the globe were risisng in the pandemic, retail supply chain were hampered and it
minimised the production in retail sectors. As a result overall demand management can
be hindered which resulted in reduced profitability.
2.4 Interrelation of Industry 4.0 and Supply Chain Management
It has been widely discussed that industrial operations and developments in the current century
have ushered in Industry 4.0 to the global industrial landscape. Industry 4.0 has been defined in
literature as the latest industrial revolution that has been enabled and facilitated by the rapid
progress of automation, connectivity and communication technologies. The drivers and barriers
of industries in this age have been redefined in every aspect due to the radical technological
changes in different areas of businesses including “Supply Chain Management (SCM)”.
According to Ghadge et al. (2020), organisational, strategic, legal, ethical and technological
dimensions of businesses have recorded the most profound impact of these drivers and barriers.
It has also been noted that the induction of several technological elements from Industry 4.0 has
revolutionised the SCM processes of businesses. Improvement of transparency, efficiency,

19

resilience and adaptability in SCM systems has been facilitated by Industry 4.0 in the areas of
procurement, logistics, planning and product development.
The advent of Industry 4.0 has changed the SCM strategies to include critical elements such as
precise planning and prediction of supply chain requirements and business needs, increment of
material and product traceability, and improved performance of the suppliers in the “Global
Supply Chains”. As opined by Tortorella et al. (2018), sharing information with all parties
involved in the supply chain such as suppliers, logistics and businesses in real-time enables the
synchronisation of the actions between suppliers, manufacturers, logistics and businesses. This
reduces the time consumed in different supply chain processes while increasing their precision
and utility. It has been further noted that the integration of automation and advanced
communication technologies have also enabled businesses to implement vehicle routing systems
and intelligent warehousing that are critical in tracking and monitoring the flow of materials and
products across the Supply chains.
Several studies have indicated that the adoption of Industry 4.0 technologies by businesses has
been driven by disruptions caused by digitisation. As stated by Koh et al. (2019), the
competition in supply chains has increased due to the facilitation of easy access and
transparency in shopping from a wide variety of businesses at any time by the e-commerce
platforms. The integration of IoT has enabled businesses to maintain their competitive
advantage through real-time remote monitoring of product movements, increased connectivity
in the supply chains and “Smart Supply Chains” over digital platforms. The technology of
Industry 4.0 has enabled SCMs in becoming highly adaptive to external environments. On the
other hand, the major barriers to such technological integration have been noted as financial
constraints, lack of support from management, lack of expertise, internal resistance and legal
issues.